select0r

This plugin selects a range of colors, and creates a corresponding
alpha channel. It is cascadable, allowing construction of complex
color selection subspaces.


Written by Marko Cebokli,  aug 2010,  and released under GNU GPL


RELEASE NOTES

** aug 2010
Version 0.1
"pre-alpha" (throw it out and see what happens... :-)

** mar 2012
Version 0.2
is now endian independent

** mar 2012
Version 0.3
adds double mapping of list parameters

** apr 2012
Version 0.4
adds "Slope" edge mode and parameter


DESCRIPTION

parameters:

Color to select:
the color to select. This is the center point of the selected
color subspace.

Invert selection:
When ON, the selected color will be transparent, as normally used
with keying. When OFF (default) the selected color will be opaque,
for exmaple for alpha controlled adjustment of that color only.

Delta XXXX:
These three parameters determine the size of the color subspace
along each axis. Bigger value means bigger tolerance on that axis.
For example, setting a high I delta (in ABI and HCI), will allow
the selection of a specific color in both light and shadows, but
will also discard most of the high-bandwidth luma signal, making
the selection less spatially accurate.

Slope:
When edge mode is set to "Slope", this parameter controls a
gradual transition between opaque and transparent. Slope=0 gives
a "hard" key, increasing the value of this parameter increases
the range of colors around the selected color, that will be rendered
partially transparent.

Selection subspace:
specifies in which of the three color spaces (RGB, ABI, HCI) the
delta controls will work. Both ABI and HCI are separated
luma/chroma. HCI is a cylindrical "Hue Chromacity Intensity" space,
and ABI is a cartesian version thereof. Both suffer from chroma
subsampling, and will give less sharp results than RGB.
NOTE1: chroma subsampling is not a fault of this plugin. Frei0r
plugins work in RGB 4:4:4. If you supply it with a truly 4:4:4
video, it will produce perfectly sharp alpha from all three color
spaces.
NOTE2: HCI is slow, because it has to calculate atan2() and hypot()
for each pixel.
NOTE3: ABI is based on the alpha an beta coordinates, upon which
most of the Hxx type colorspaces are defined.
See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV

Subspace shape:
determines the shape of the color subspace. Options are: box,
ellipsoid or diamond. Box is the biggest of them (by volume) and
diamond the smallest. Imagine an octahedron inscribed inside an
ellipsoid, which is in turn inscribed in a box. The tips of the
diamond touch the ellipsoid, and the box, at the center of the
sides of the box.

Edge mode:
has five options: "Hard", "Fat", "Normal", "Skinny" and "Slope".
"Hard" means the alpha channel will be thresholded to two values only,
fully opaque and fully transparent. This is mainly useful for
keying.
The "Slope" mode is also intended for keying. It is particularly
useful when keying partly transparent or fuzzy (like hair) objects.
The remaining options ("Fat", "Normal" and "Skinny") create a gradual
transition between transparent and opaque. Alpha will be a function of
the difference of color from the selected color, with cutoff at the
delta points.The fatter the choice, the more the selected areas are
filled towards the rim. This is useful with alpha controlled color
adjustment tools.

Operation:
determines the way in which the alpha channel will be written.
The "min", "max", "add" and "subtract" options allow cascading
of select0r plugins (or combination with other alpha-writting
plugins). These options combine the current selection with the
pre-existing alpha of the source material.
This way complex selections can be built.
